good afternoon let me get a quick drink
here before I get the cottonmouth all
right so my name is Michael wop I'm the
manager of a desktop management
solutions for Apple Computer I'm really
excited to be talking with you guys
today mostly because I've been sitting
in the car for two weeks working on this
presentation and my wife and kids are
really getting tired of hearing about
managed desktop technologies so um let's
get started we're I'm going to spend a
little time today we're going to be
talking about whatever what our strategy
is for desktop management at Apple and
as we go through we're going to give you
some live demonstrations of a netboot
network install and apple remote desktop
as well as a managed a sub so what we're
going to learn today we're going to give
you this overview of what we've done as
part of Panther server as part of alpha
remote desktop we're going to spend some
time on understanding how these
different technologies are actually
going to work together we're going to
talk about some of the new features that
we have issues with any of them releases
and most importantly um what we're gonna
be doing is what i'm getting you sis
admins and IT folks ideas of how to use
these solutions together because you all
have different management policies out
there and our tools is really important
our tools work well together to provide
a variety of solutions so before we
start some show of hands how many of
people are responsible for two or more
macs and by responsible by responsible i
mean if something goes wrong with them
you're the person that's called hands up
two or more okay good okay fake much to
get them up get them up so 50 or more
whoa a hundred or more Wow a thousand or
more
uh-huh okay interesting oh sorry I can't
really see you guys up here that's five
thousand or more XO man good great to
see five thousand max ladies and
gentlemen solo one more is he an apple
employee 35,000 Mac
I wonder about that I wonder about that
one second okay so 35,000 that's then I
lose the bet okay so um let's talk about
desktop management the gentleman here in
the front row earlier was asked me what
does management mean right that's my
manager talking to me and doing stuff
now it's not that what it is the way
that we see it is there's basically
three steps to a desktop management and
want to talk about the life cycle here
desktop management lifecycle we're going
to make it simple let's not talk about
35,000 match let's talk about one single
Macintosh and the steps well the
business process steps that we see that
I see our deploy managing assess not
only talk about what each of these means
for its of one Mac deploy box shows up
get it out of the box I've got to get it
to somebody it's got to be a marketing
person he needs an operating system or
she needs a set of applications that's
deploy bunch of decisions in action then
we have to actually get it out to them
each of you has a different management
policy some of you are giving them a
user network password some of you or
want absolute control over the desktop
so you got a whole nother set of
decisions there how to manage and then
there's a set which is okay great I've
got the imac it's sitting out there and
then things are happening to it there's
you software coming out there's um
there's trouble seeing that needs to be
going on there's a new operating systems
coming out so all these things every
decision that I just talked about here
is part of the work for you guys out
there they're actually working on
managing these machines and I'm just
talking about a single Mac here right we
just talked about one single Mac so what
about if you've got 550 35,000 what if
you're this guy man what have you got
that's a lot of imacs there so think
about it like this the point is this
think about applying a software update
to this lab we take it for granted as
individuals because the maps are so easy
to use that it's really easy to hold on
a software up and do it if you want to
pull a software update to this set of
max we're talking about a weekend we're
talking about hours we're talking about
a huge amount of money being expended so
what our goal is what our strategy is
where we're driving the products
is to develop an integrated suite of
products and technology to simplify
automate desktop management of Apple
hardware and software hardware and
software that's not just desktops that's
portable that's all the software so
they're very very very broad goal and
it's something I think we've done really
well as part of Panther server and out
the remote desktop so let's go back and
see how we actually fit in with the
current products we had on our relatives
to this management lifecycle so for um
for deployed and we'll talk about each
of these products in depth here in a
segment for deploy we have netboot your
ability to netboot systems do network
installs we have managed so we can
actually get miss you can set up their
images and actually broadcast them out
there that's one of our management
solutions hello there we go we have the
work with manager specifically manage
preferences to help set up the
management management policies of a for
you guys out there and then we have a
set you'll see the ARD at the remote
desktop actually covers all of these
because it touches each one of these
it's very different tool in Panther the
Panthers server but because it's more of
a it's adil is it's a box and it's a
separate application but it's something
that we feel that covers all of these
different sectors so click there we go
so let's get in some specifics net food
and network installations part of
Panther server I know a lot of you
probably already very familiar with
netboot for those you're not the basic
building blocks of netboot are images
disk images there's specific images for
net boots and specific images for
network install let's talk about each
one of those after I have some water
excuse me so two flavors same technology
two different flavors of this first we
have a network install the way I think
of network install I think of it as sort
of a poor man software update the idea
here is you actually build images put in
whatever arbitrary software operating
systems you want into it and allow the
users actually do the installs over the
network something remember about netboot
is we it's for the wire it's not
something that's for wireless because
these are big images right we've got
operating systems in here you've got
applications in here so
network install in that boot slightly
different flavor again some of you know
this net food is centralized boot images
what does that mean what that means is
actually booting up off the server from
a net boot image there's actually
nothing being stored except for a swap
file on the local machine so that sounds
nice and handy but why would I really
want to actually do that it's really
useful for for lab situations go back to
the guy in that slide right if you but
net but what you get each time you boot
up the machine and you get the exact
same system so if you got a hostile use
out there and he does what he or she
does some things the machine next time
you reboot to a net boot system you
actually get a exact same system so it's
really handy for the lab situation kiosk
and that sort of thing so um some
examples real-world examples of a
network install again as I already
mentioned pushing OS updates out putting
out applications putting putting pushing
out whatever disk images you want a
network install full updates partial
updates about for all Apple hardware and
you can actually do it with ard you can
actually you can actually use the
machine to actually you can I'll do see
here in the apple remote desktop shortly
I can actually change the separate
networks to upset the startup disk
actually you reboot and do a reboot from
a different image and you can actually
do that or the system or users can
actually update at their own convenience
for netboot again your administration
don't have to do anything you won't have
this one image on its server and you
don't have to worry about in the machine
because you know they're always gonna be
in the exact same state you could for
example have a different boot image for
different departments marketing
engineering or another thing you can do
with a new feature that we put into this
release we have a diskless netbook where
there's absolutely no storage on the
Commission and that would be really
handy for let's say if you want to do a
deploy of the network diagnostic image
where you can actually have a diskless
netboot and actually has not have
anything on the machine so I can be
something to be really handy so another
use of net food would be in that network
diagnostic and repair so um so what are
we doing Panther we did a lot we changed
a lot we um for those of you again
familiar with netboot setting up a net
boot environment can have
complex in the past so our first goal is
to really simplify the setup and the
configuration of net food servers now
I'm going to show that to you in a
second the other thing is you've got all
these images these are big images and
you've got to do a lot of things to them
and there's more software coming out so
we had this tool called a network image
utility which is a simple tool we've
completely rewritten the network image
utility as part of Panther server to be
something which is much more geared at
managing images managing meaning I've
got new images I want to update images I
want to edit images I want to sync them
with other sources i want to create i
want to clone volumes we've added all of
that to the network image utility i'm
going to show you some of that here in a
second so a huge screen shot of new
netboot server is actually the images of
pain you can see it's very similar to
all the other server admin plugins that
we have here will actually show this you
in a demo in a couple minutes so I'm
actually going to just going to blow by
a list as you can see simplified user
interface server admin very familiar
anyone who's using server admin is going
to be able to use the netbook piece
because because it's all of the same UI
as I mentioned we add another feature
which is dis lyst netboot that means
that there's nothing being stored on the
machine that's doing in that boot and
also we've provided a knit boot over
HTTP as well network image utility so
those of you familiar with the other one
this is a brand new one we've completely
redone it we've rewritten it completely
in Coco what you're seeing here is a
list of all the images that you have in
a local machine when you fire up the NIU
and I'm actually going to show this to
you in a second so well just breeze by
these as well the other thing that we do
with the new NIU is we actually walked a
user through setting up how to set up
these images because it's a wide variety
miss cloning from the CD there's cloning
a volume there's all these different
ways of doing it so we won't you
actually do is we give you give you a
breadcrumb it's actually figure out how
to create these things so um like I said
it's already been we learned in cocoa
we've we give you the ability to
actually walk through and create these
images make it make it easier for you to
understand what you need to do a feature
that was really really popular is we
ought now to give the ability to clone
existing volumes so here's a great idea
you sit down you configure the system
however you want use the network image
they actually clone the volume create an
image out of that it's a really handy
way to actually set it up another thing
that you'll see is we actually give the
ability to import export images from the
NIU remember these are big things this
can be huge files right so we actually
within it you actually have the ability
actually import and export over there
and another thing we've been in asked
for is the ability to put them post it's
all scripts so one of the things you can
do is actually if we can't do something
for you you can put a arbitrary script
it does some sort of thing some other
setup that we don't know we haven't
thought of in there as well that's built
right into the NIU let's take a look at
these guys nice and fast okay so here we
are in cancer server and we're going to
fire up the new NIU okay so what you're
seeing here these are these are just
some images we put together for this
demo these are the different images that
i have here you can see here these are
all digital all of this local volume
here i'm giving trying to give them
useful name so here we have the Jaguar
latest net net install image we've got a
panther raw maybe i have a couple
different images that i want to have
here the idea is you've got a whole
listing here which is sortable and I
last modified date and you can actually
use this to actually get an idea of what
images you have on this machine all
right i'm just going quickly across the
toolbar it the two types of basic types
of images we have our net install and
netboot so you can click on these to
actually do that walks we do that one
second you can edit you can edit the
image from here as well i'm not going to
do that right now and as i mentioned you
can import and export as well so let's
see here what do we want to do so we're
going to go ahead and actually just
start to a network creating a network
install here let's see here let's call
this demo WWDC would give an ID another
thing another feature that we add in
here is the description right so what
does in that image that I called you no
image 27 a be I have no idea this is the
Panther image please don't touch so you
can actually put that description in
their neck and put a more a little cook
a little more content in there
so what I'm going to do here and I'm
actually not going to do this because
this would take a very long time to this
give you a feel for it is actually what
we do what we do here is we're actually
in a cologne this volume what I have
here is I have a Macintosh I have this
partition right here that I'd want to
clone but there's another thing i want
to do i know there was this keynote
update that i wanted to add as well so
this is how easy it is to actually go
and create this so go ahead and I'm
going to pull this package by avoiding
all rights that here no you waking up
there mmm maybe not there we go then we
go go ahead and add that ok now it's not
going to do it I can actually do this
right now because again it would take
too long but up that's done here is I'm
now creating a network install image
from a cloned from a partition I'm
adding another package at the end like
that another post install script I click
create and I actually see it actually
create one nice thing for you guys out
there once and don't want to know what's
going on excuse me there's actually log
here the old on I you didn't have
anything they're just going to take it
away and we actually can see the log you
can actually see the tools that we're
using the operating system to create
this so if you want to do it yourself
just take a look at the log so that's
the NIU networking and utility let's see
here ok so the other thing I want to
show you guys is the server
administrator specifically on that boot
again if you've been to the other
sessions you've probably already seen
this so it's very similar to the to the
other services that we have available
here's a netbook tab important important
thing to note no longer is dhcp in that
boot model together why did we do that
I'm not sure
[Applause]
glad to hear that good feedback okay so
here we are as I mentioned there's a lot
of different pieces to netboot to get it
setting up and running so here's the
overview you can actually see we can you
to get going or NFS running AFP going
take a look at the logs here show me the
logs tell me what's going on client to
the boot from this is no one actually
booted from this we don't actually have
anything in here yet and here we getting
to the setting this is really the meat
of setting up the server what you're
seeing here is that I've bound to a
ethernet port I can say what I want the
client date and images stored for this
particular for this particular server
but really the need of what you're going
to be what you can be doing is managing
what images you have from this server so
here we are again you'll see exactly
like the NIU this is the list of images
that I have on the server here i have an
enabled a of enabled a net boot as the
default image so if you hold the n key
down this is the image that will come
from this server right we don't want to
do a network install because I'd start
installing stuff on someone's from this
machine again you can enable the
feasible enable here as well excuse me
and also if you want to do disclose this
is where you'd be setting that up
sending this as well as well as spending
which protocol you wanted to be served
over so what this configured like this
the process of actually firing up the
service is pretty simple you click start
can you wait a second and wait one more
second there we go net boots being
served up right now really simple really
easy to use interface for a very complex
problem we're trying to solve okay so um
that's it for the demo spec slides okay
thank you easy to use necklace you got
to love it okay man is desktop the other
second of our two of management
technology I want to jump back is
something I started with a little while
ago we've got a variety of people out
here and with lab machines and 35,000
machines and the fact of the matter is
each of you has a very
unique management policy some of you
like I said I'm just want you know I
just want to control their username and
the password some of you want absolute
control over it because your education
and you want don't want your students
having access to network resources or
maybe some of the assistant preferences
what a managed desktop does for us is
for those of you attended some of the
directory sessions what managed desktop
does it gives us the ability to manage
the Preferences on these on these client
machines what happens is be a directory
cert with the review our directory
services we actually pull down these
manage preferences to a local machine
and then the operating system uses those
preferences as the as the preferences
for the for that machine important point
here when these preferences to pull down
the open directory they're cached so
we've got these portables out here these
portables that may or may not be
actually on the network so the nice
thing about this is that these
preferences that you'll be setting and
work with management will be showing you
this in one second or actually going to
follow these portables around it's
really handy um the other nice thing is
you'll see in the work week manages we
have a reflexive alway to define a set
of policies this is because all of you
each one of you has a very very
different set as a different policy so
you can set policy for computers sets of
computers in the lab you can set
policies and preferences for groups so
I've got this group of students or I've
got these group of employees but need to
sit in certain preferences or you can
set on an individual user basis all
those preferences when you set those and
pull down the machine or composite is so
I can set them up here with the computer
list and the group and in the user so
and again as i mention it's designed to
support portable hardware one thing that
i'll show you here shortly and i know
this is coming up a lot of sessions one
of the things that we've added as part
of a managed desktop and work with
manager is mobile accounts has everyone
heard this yet ok so what mobile
accounts are is what this does is using
this managed desktop technology it
actually gives you the ability when you
send it account as mobile two actually
cash the account cassia username as well
as a network credentials this means that
if i set up the user actually do with a
mobile account this means
I when I first login my credentials are
pulled down my accounts pulled down
there saved locally when i disconnect
from the network i can still log in with
the exact same network password right so
you're out key folks out there he was
one-on-one passively spurt for each
computer each person this is a great
feature for you guys so Nana's desktop
provide standardized desktop
configurations give the ability to
manage system preferences control access
to hardware to software network
resources the ability to automatically
provide networked home directories
control the desktop automatically launch
applications that log in there's a lot
of pieces to this so what we're going to
do what we did as part of Panther was a
managed desktop with something which we
introduced as part of a Jaguar and
continue to support so we want to
continue to refine the technology
additionally those new preferences which
has landed as part of Jack Panther so we
need to extend it to actually support
those and want stronger support for
portables because there's a lot of you
out there when a lot of your hardware
out there is going to be portable and if
you want to manage it you need the
Technic the technology needs to support
you so let's quickly go down the list of
managed preferences that we actually
manage and I'll go through these pretty
quickly um application access what which
applications do you want them to be
actually able to to manage managing a
classic environment what's how you want
when you wanted to start up doc behavior
how it shows up basically everything
that you can everything you can do
within a normal system preferences a new
one as of a new one s of Panther is the
energy saver settings you lab guys out
there you've got labs that you want to
start up at nine o'clock and you want to
shut down at 10pm with this man is
desktop this feature that new energy
saver settings is now managed so give me
able to do that in your labs as well
which is a really popular feature thank
you
finder controlling to find a behavior
internet preferences careful this isn't
this is an imp answer why is this still
listed here remember not everyone's
going to Panther tomorrow right maybe
they will who knows this is the
preference which is something which is
in Jaguar this manage preferences need
to manage machines that are in Jaguar as
well as Panther so what you're going to
see when you look at our preferences for
managed desktop is it's going to be a
union it's going to be the full set of
this so that you continue continue to
manage your mechanical machines just
like managing a Jaguar machines fall
backward compatibility logging items
auto launching applications media access
control the media this is another
popular thing in education you don't
want them burning a lot of CDs so you
just turn off the CD player mobile
accounts which we already talked about
the ability actually cash an account
follows you around printer access quotas
and then management system preferences
maybe I don't want people to get to the
accounts button so using this next I'll
show you this in the demo they can
actually turn this off or whatever
preferences you want they're not
available via in system preferences so
let's do that let's actually show this
off okay what group manager for the sake
of simplicity what I'm going to do here
is I'm actually going to just edit and
locally so I'm just I'm not editing an
ldap server here what I'm doing is
editing a local that info database just
for simplicity sake so I'm going to go
ahead i'm going to create a group and
this is going to be a new group called
WWDC lab lab 1 go ahead and save that
sucker alright so for the lab let's see
what do I want to do to this guy for the
lab you know I'm a very smart IT guy and
I know that if you put the doc on the
right huge productivity game so I'm
going to force everybody in my lab to
have a doc on the right because I can't
all right
ok so I'm quickly just to go quickly for
these settings here that we have your
what you can do for each of the settings
that we're going through you can have it
not manage you can have one once the
difference between once in all ways
israeli extremely relevant once means
that this setting is pulled down once
and it's sort of a breadcrumb you're
trying to help out your user by setting
up something so it's easy from for them
to it and get around their desktop they
can change it always means it's always
they can't touch it and for this I'm
going to make it always so here we go
doc on the right good luck alright so we
just did there as we set the dock of the
rights or anybody within this group is
going to get their dock on the right all
right let's go ahead and create a user
as well and so sort of will show um also
accounts there we go so actually
compositing of our preferences as well
some of the creating your character
around this called Ram alright so we'll
go ahead and we'll make R and he's
probably get a password give a name and
a password and I'm going to go add him
to the WWDC lab group and we'll go ahead
and we'll set some preferences for this
guy after we save it alright so ranch is
sort of a sketchy character so what
we're going to do here is going to
manage some of his system preferences as
well I don't want him to have account
access and I don't want him to have
expose because it's just too cool and
he's not a cool guy ok so we'll go ahead
and we'll apply that i'm not going to do
is actually to log in to log in as rant
on this machine here so shut this down
and will log out no will really log out
and we'll go ahead and login what you're
seeing here is that I joined of work
with the work group is at wwcc lab is
telling me this is that you're going to
be joining it you can actually choose to
remember this so you don't get this
dialogue every single time we'll go
ahead and login and there we see it doc
on the right hugely productive Rams so
thank you when you'll see here is
actually um you can't change it and
she's not is because we made this a
forced preference on here it's set to
always when you go and you take a look
at what he can get to can't get to
expose oh my god what's he going to do
and it can't get to accounts as well so
this is a really trivial example but you
can't get the idea if you have multiple
work groups or lots of users or
computerless and it's really easy to
actually set these up and and deploy
them to your users you're going to want
to know about mobile accounts because it
seems to be a very popular topic I would
direct you toward the session tomorrow
at nine o'clock manage developing for
managed networks no all right nine
o'clock session and they're actually
gonna be demoing it that's their
tomorrow so you can actually see that at
work so let's log back in as admin and
leave this for the next demo ok back to
slides please ok so that was managed
desktop ok last of the three at the
remote desktop so this is a this is very
different than the two technologies we
just talked about today we already
talked about it's a separate product
it's why there's a box there's a big
difference between these technologies
this this product and the technology
just talked about because alpha remote
desktop is more of a real-time
technology it's a separate product to
actually do things in real time of the
now is I would like to think of it one
of the key features with apple remote
desktop is the ability to to use these
to use it on not just one machine but
actually it's a broadcast to multiple
machine that's a big differentiator as I
mentioned is a separate product from
Panther server and its really ideal for
a small
medium-sized deployments of max excuse
me let's take a look at so what we got
going on here so this is sample
screenshot of a apple remote desktop
what you're looking at is up in the
bottom here we've got a list of the
machines that we're managing we're
interacting with over here on the right
we're doing a multi observe looking at
four machines at the same time something
maybe you want to do in a classroom if
you're monitoring what your students are
doing there's a sending a text message
and that's at the top is actually report
that's been generated against this we're
actually going to do a actually going to
do a live demo of this in a second so
let's talk a little bit about how you're
going to use out the remote desktop
system management copying files moving
applicator well that's that's more of a
software distribution but system
management to Main Street making sure
that you've got to making sure that
you've got the right machines been
profiling against them between Remote
Assistance doing actual interaction with
these machines via screen sharing
subsystem profiling is one other big
thing we're doing a asset management in
software distribution again installing
packages over the network doing all
sorts of doing all sorts of things it's
it's the Swiss Army knife that's what I
always think about alpha remote desktop
there's a huge amount of things you can
do that when you sit down you take a
look at it there's just a huge amount of
what I call management verbs that you
can do with this application and we need
to show you a bunch of those in a second
first um what did we do with a rd or
apple remote desktop this year first off
we M had two releases this year we had
the apple remote desktop 12 release
which was out last March incremental
release but we did add some key new
features the ability to set the network
startup disk again utilizing net food
and network installs the ability to do
that so you can quickly repurpose a
large set of machines to a different
disk image remote software installation
the ability to broadcast packages to
what large side of machines as well as
and it makes it really easy to auto auto
update prior versions on the network
that was one release there's another
release so we actually did something
with panther and those of you who've
gotten your CD you've installed it and
taking a look at it
in the sharing panel there's a noodle
check box alpha remote desktop what did
we do it we give you a free copy of ard
Apple in Odessa actually know what we
did is we actually there's two pieces
the apple remote desktop there's the
agent those are you familiar with the
product there's the agent what we've
done the agent and there's the admin
administrator the administrators the
console that you look at what we've done
if we built the agent in the Panther the
number one the number one complaint
people had about apple remote desktop
it's hard to configure I better go visit
every single machine installed the agent
make sure you have anything it's built
in every Panther server and every Spurs
my Panther has a self into the product
so you click well actually show it here
in a second so I'm what I'm going to do
now is I'm actually gonna bring them
Chris Norman he's the up remote desktop
engineering manager welcome ok so I'm
what we're going to do here is we're
actually going to we're going to do a
little scenario we've gotta wear a Tai
Chi administrator and we're actually
going to do some management of our
machines let's go ahead and a fire up
ard out the remote desktop and Chris was
going to go ahead and he's got four
machines in this workgroup here so he's
actually to go ahead and add four of
these machines here that's probably
wondering why we got this big huge pile
of portables over here we've got a wide
variety we've got a 17 inch powerbook
we've got a 15 inch we've got a
tangerine on we got a lot of hardware so
he's go ahead and add those there add
those machines it was ok so unless first
what we want to do is let's say we've
got a problem with one of these machines
so let's go ahead and actually control
one of these machines so what we're
looking at here is actually controlling
one of these Pat one of these portables
up here so I can get an idea take a look
at more info actually start to triage
the problem
okay looks like we have a problem with
our IDE all right so um this is great so
you can actually you know remote control
it's a very handy feature the other one
that we showed in the slide before was
the ability to actually multi observe
multiple machines so go ahead and we'll
do all four kind of handy so the first
question is going to be well what I've
got 30 machines that I'm observing so
when you get to modem more than four
machines which it actually deals you'll
start cycling through them it's over
there are six there you get one two
three four and then its cycle to the
next two as well one of the nice feature
size but we put into ard 12 was the
ability to actually jump in and actually
you look at one of these machines click
on that boom you're right there and then
pull it back great okay so I'm sort of a
finicky IT guy and I like my machine
names to be a certain way and right now
they're all set it looks like english
lab actually I'm going to give it a
different name but again we've got to be
thinking about multiple machines here so
what we're going to do here is will
actually give it a new name math lab oh
that's right it's math lab now I forgot
completely you see how what you see here
it's happening if you just type in
matlab and each of them this actually
auto incremented and to be Matthew's did
a massive change of all the names right
there but again be thinking about 20
machines be thinking about 50 machines
here so um next up we're going to do a
little asset management I'm going to
take and go ahead and do a system info
report against a against these four
machines and he's going to go ahead and
he's selecting hardware hardware's has a
slight filter on these where you saw
there's a huge amount of information it
can actually pull down so he's going to
pull down free just a bunch of hardware
attributes you wants to pull down and
there you go report right there it's
sortable you can move two columns around
if you want like things next to each
other but the other thing you might need
they'll do is you might want to actually
report on these so what we're going to
do now is actually going to export it to
a file
so there he goes he just do it to a
known format it's just out to the
desktop there you go right there again
for machines but imagine this is 400
you've just done all this work from a
single machine alright so um the next
thing we're going to do is actually
we're going to actually push some bits
on to these machines chris has a thing
called developer essentials on this
machine right here what he's going to do
is actually going to go ahead and deploy
the set of Miss set of information to
this machine's what you saw there is you
just drag and drop it to the set of
machines it's asking right now but where
he wants to put it and it's the same
relevant location same relative location
there it goes haha already there so
we're going to replace someone through
there and it's going and starting to
copy them you can keep an eye on status
you want any information but what's
going on with any of these machines I
could find her they're all there okay so
next thing we're going to do we're going
to UM one of the things we have is
there's a lot of software updates coming
out all the time and one of the things
you want to do is you want to take these
software updates you want to push them
out to set of machines so what Chris is
going to do now is just going to fire
software update up and you're going to
pull down a small update rather than
installing it to this machine what he's
going to do is actually going to save it
locally on this machine and this is
something which is built in a software
update right now so what you're seeing
here is we're actually pulling down an
ipod software update coming down live
off the network right this very second
rather quickly i might add okay and what
we're going to do with this when it can
when it's done coming down is we're
going to actually move it onto these
machines using one of the new features
an apple remote desktop 12 so what he's
going to go ahead and do after he moves
it into the finder is actually going to
go ahead when he gets to apple i'm going
to us up eventually there we go
okay so one of the new features is
actually install a package so again 50
machines 100 machines what we want to do
here is actually going to do in the
stall there keep an eye on the status
first off it's copying and it's
broadcasting out to all the machines and
then if you keep an eye on the status
what you're going to see and it's
installing it nice thing about this and
I'm while I'm not sitting at one of
these portals right now I'm not going to
see anything it's just going to a
demonically install for me right there
and and once it's done and you'll see
the each of these are different machines
or a different processor speed how they
come back we're all done we've installed
I'm guessing those of the ibooks okay
okay still go in there coming back one
more and we're done then we're going to
do is we're going to actually go ahead
and reboot the machines because we can
yeah still going someone's still
installing all done set the tangerine
okay I'm go ahead and reboot you're
going to hear this noise here I'm sure
is going to be very familiar they're
coming off line and sounds good so what
we did there is we just did it again a
small example of doing some management
with ard apple remote desktop and showed
off some of the some of the verbs we
have built into the system there's a
bunch more and i encourage you to take a
look at that and i also it should be a
lot easier for you to do so because we
actually built the agent so thank you
Chris
okay so that was the a tap remote
desktop demo keep your eye on this space
there's a lots of fun things happening
in this space so um wrap up this is this
is this is a holy grail demo that I
would have loved to give you guys if we
had the time to actually be able to do
it what I would have loved to do is
actually pull it up do what you all do
all day is pull a new machine out of a
box set it up hold down the end key have
an automatically network installed that
I've that I built previously just start
to install automatically have the
network having set up on that machine
for you so you don't have to do anything
other than hold down the end key so when
the user actually gets the machine they
fire it up they're just sitting there at
their login window they can use their
name password and that you didn't have
to do anything other than build that one
image for them I think I'd be a really
compelling down when I think one of the
things that you should know now is that
using these technology able to have the
ability to do that so key points that we
have I think what we're doing is we're
working on the best tools and
technologies to manage McIntosh Apple
Macintosh Hardware I think what we're
showing off here today is we're showing
off that they're designed for
flexibility because again Evan all of
you five thirty five thousand all of you
have a different management policy and
we need to be able to be able to provide
tools and technologies for you able to
do that and again these are built in to
Panther and Panther server so it's
already out there and I encourage you to
give them a try just so you know there's
a lot of other sessions which actually
support us directory services relative
to manage desktop it's really important
I realized a lot of these have been it
may have already occurred so um I
encourage you to look at the slides or a
review of review these building
applications for managed networks will
be showing off mobile accounts them on
that tomorrow that's tomorrow morning
and I am authentication again this
already occurred but it's something I
encourage you to take a look at here's
our contact information if you want to
come find us and
[Music]
here's some great resources the
resources up there what I'd like to do
now is I can invite some of the best of
the team up here to actually come up
here and add answer some questions for
us